
Model Descriptions:

The program called ex3_prob2.f solves the nonlinear shallow
water equations as they apply to a 2.5 layer model of the
ocean on a middle-latitude beta-plane centred
at 40N. The model domain is 5000km by 5000km, which is
about the size of the North Atlantic. The model grid spacing
is 100km and a timestep of 1/16th of a day is used.

Running the Model:

Before running the model you will need to choose 
appropriate parameters for the problem you wish
to address. To do this you will need to edit the
file called ex3_prob2.input. The various parameters
that you need to choose are described below.


TSTOP:  This is the length of time in years that you want
        to run the model.

IPLTM:  An integer flag to control the frequency that data is plotted.
        Data is plotted every IPLTM years. So IPLTM=1 plots data
        every year.
        You may want to experiment with this parameter as it
        is very easy to end up with huge output files.
        With IPLTM=10, an 80 year run of the model creates an
        output file that is about 4Mb big.

X_0:    The amplitude of the steady zonal surface wind
        stress in N/m*m.

A_H:    The coefficient of horizontal eddy viscosity.

R_1:    The coefficient of linear drag between the layers
        in units of seconds^-1.
        

Once you have prepared the input file ex3_prob2.input
you are ready to compile and run the model.

To compile the models type:

   make -f make.ex3_prob2 prob2


This will create an executable file called prob2.x.
(Note: On some machines you may get some compiler warnings
when compiling graphics.f . I do not get these on my computer (A DEC),
so providing that prob2.x is created successfully following
the make command, these compiler warnings are probably
harmless.)

To run the non-linear model simply type:

./prob2.x

When the model has run, the file prob2.ps is a postscript
file that contains contour and vector plots of the model fields.
This file can be printed on a postscript printer,
and viewed on the screen using a utility such as 
ghostscript or xv.

NOTE: The run time of this model may vary significantly
from machine to machine, so do not leave this exercise
set until the last miniute in case you are unlucky
enough to be the user of a slow computer.

***Each time that you run the model the file prob2.ps
   will be overwritten so you will need to rename it each
   time if you want to keep it.

Each time you changes the input parameters in the file
ex3_prob2.input it is not necessary to recompile the model
before you run it again.

Happy computing!

PS If you have any problems running the model please let
me (Andy) know asap.


