
Model Descriptions:

The program called ocea201_ex1_prob1.f solves the shallow
water equations as they apply to a 1.5 layer model of the
ocean on a middle-latitude beta-plane centred
at 40N. The model domain is 5000km by 5000km, which is
about the size of the North Atlantic. The model grid spacing
is 100km and a timestep of 1/16th of a day is used.

Running the Model:

Before running the model you will need to choose 
appropriate parameters for the problem you wish
to address. To do this you will need to edit the
file called ocea201_ex1_prob1.input. The various parameters
that you need to choose are described below.


TSTOP:  This is the length of time in years that you want
        to run the model.

IPLTM:  An integer flag to control the frequency that data is plotted.
        Data is plotted every IPLTM years. So IPLTM=1 plots data
        every year.
        You may want to experiment with this parameter as it
        is very easy to end up with huge output files.

A_H:    The coefficient of horizontal eddy viscosity.

IFNONL: This parameter switches the inertial accelerations
        on and off. 
        For a linear model run set IFNONL=0
        For a non-linear model run set IFNONL=1


Once you have prepared the input file ocea201_ex1_prob1.input
you are ready to compile and run the model.

To compile the model type:

   make -f make.ocea201_ex1_prob1  prob1

This will create an executable file called prob1.x
(Note: On some machines you may get some compiler warnings
when compiling graphics.f . I do not get these on my computer
so providing that prob1.x is created successfully following
the make command, these compiler warnings are probably
harmless.)

To run the model simply type:

./prob1.x 

When the model has run, the file prob1.ps is a postscript
file that contains contour plots of the model
thermocline displacement in m. This file can be viewed and
printed using "gv prob1.ps".

NOTE: The run time of this model may vary significantly
from machine to machine, so do not leave this problem
set until the last miniute in case you are unlucky
enough to be the user of a slow computer.

***Each time that you run the model you must rename the file prob1.ps
   if you want to keep it (I would advise doing this) or remove it.

Each time you change the input parameters in the file
ocea201_set5prob1.input it is not necessary to recompile the model
before you run it again.

Happy computing!

PS If you have any problems running the model please let
me (Andy) know asap.

