
Model Descriptions:

The program called ex6_prob2.f solves the shallow
water equations as they apply to the abyssal ocean
on a middle-latitude beta-plane centred
at PHI0. The model domain is 5000km by 5000km, which is
about the size of the North Atlantic. The model grid spacing
is 100km and a timestep of 1/16th of a day is used.

Running the Model:

Before running the model you will need to choose 
appropriate parameters for the problem you wish
to address. To do this you will need to edit the
file called ex6_prob2.input. The various parameters
that you need to choose are described below.


TSTOP:  This is the length of time in years that you want
        to run the model.

PHI0:   The central latitude (in degrees) of the basin.
        PHI0 > 0 in the northern hemisphere.
        PHI0 < 0 in the southern hemisphere.

IPLTM:  An integer flag to control the frequency that data is plotted.
        Data is plotted every IPLTM months. So IPLTM=6 plots data
        every 6 months.
        You may want to experiment with this parameter as it
        is very easy to end up with huge output files.
        With IPLTM=5, a 50 year run of the model creates an
        output file that is about 5Mb big.

A_H:    The coefficient of horizontal eddy viscosity.

Once you have prepared the input file ex6_prob2.input
you are ready to compile and run the model.

To compile the model type:

  make -f make.ex6 prob2

This will create an executable file called prob2.x

To run the model simply type:

./prob2.x 


When the model has run, the file prob2.ps is a postscript
file that contains contour and vector plots of the model fields.
This file can be printed on a postscript printer,
and viewed on the screen using a utility such as 
ghostscript or gv.

***Each time that you run the model the file prob2.ps
   will be overwritten so you will need to rename it each
   time if you want to keep it.

Each time you changes the input parameters in the file
ex6_prob2.input it is not necessary to recompile the model
before you run it again.

Happy computing!

PS If you have any problems running the model please let
me (Andy) know asap.


